{"title": "How long will high US interest rates last? Bond markets say maybe forever", "tags": "business", "timestamp": "2024-06-24", "content": "NEW YORK - Just as optimism is growing among investors that a rally in US Treasuries is about to take off, one key indicator in the bond market is flashing a worrying sign for anyone thinking about piling in.\nFirst, the good news. With the midway point of 2024 in sight, Treasuries are on the cusp of erasing their losses for the year as signs finally emerge that inflation and the labour market are both truly cooling. Traders are now betting that may be enough for the US Federal Reserve to start cutting interest rates as soon as September.\nBut potentially limiting the central bank\u2019s ability to cut and thus setting up a headwind for bonds is the growing view in markets that the economy\u2019s so-called neutral rate \u2013 a theoretical level of borrowing costs that neither stimulates nor slows growth \u2013 is much higher than Fed policymakers are currently projecting.\n\u201cThe significance is that when the economy inevitably decelerates, there will be fewer rate cuts and interest rates over the next 10 years or so could be higher than they were over the last 10 years,\u201d said Mr Troy Ludtka, senior US economist at SMBC Nikko Securities America.\nForward contracts referencing the five-year interest rate in the next five years \u2013 a proxy for the market\u2019s view of where US rates might end up \u2013 have stalled at 3.6 per cent. While that is down from 2023\u2019s peak of 4.5 per cent, it is still more than one full percentage higher than the average over the past decade and above the Fed\u2019s own estimate of 2.75 per cent.\nThis matters because it means the market is pricing in a much more elevated floor for yields. The practical implication is that there are potential limits to how far bonds can run. This should be a concern for investors gearing up for the kind of epic bond rally that rescued them in late 2023.\nFor now, the mood among investors is growing more and more upbeat. A Bloomberg gauge of Treasury returns was down just 0.3 per cent in 2024 as at June 21 after having lost as much as 3.4 per cent for the year at its low point. Benchmark yields are down about half a percentage point from their year-to-date peak in April.\nTraders in recent sessions have been loading up on contrarian bets that stand to benefit from greater odds the Fed will cut interest rates as soon as July, and demand for futures contracts that a rally in the bond market is booming.\nBut if the market is right that the neutral rate \u2013 which cannot be observed in real time because it is subject to too many forces \u2013 has permanently climbed, then the Fed\u2019s current benchmark rate of more than 5 per cent may be not as restrictive as perceived. Indeed, a Bloomberg gauge suggests financial conditions are relatively easy.\n\u201cWe\u2019ve only seen fairly gradual slowing of economic growth, and that would suggest the neutral rate is meaningfully higher,\u201d said Mr Bob Elliott, chief executive and chief investment officer at Unlimited Funds. With the current economic conditions and limited risk premiums priced into long-maturity bonds, \u201ccash looks more compelling than bonds do\u201d.\nThe true level of the neutral rate, or R-Star as it is also known, has become the subject of hot debate. Reasons for a possible upward shift, which would mark a reversal from a decades-long downward drift, include expectations of large and protracted government budget deficits and increased investment in climate action.\nFurther gains in bonds may require a sharper slowdown in inflation and growth to prompt interest rate cuts more quickly and deeply than the Fed currently envisions. A higher neutral rate would make this scenario less likely.\nThe performance of financial markets also suggests the Fed\u2019s policy may not be restrictive enough. The S&P 500 has hit records almost on a daily basis, even as shorter-maturity inflation-adjusted rates, cited by Fed chair Jerome Powell as an input for gauging the impact of Fed policy, have surged nearly 6 percentage points since 2022.\n\u201cYou do have a market that\u2019s been incredibly resilient in the face of higher real yields,\u201d said Mr Jerome Schneider, head of short-term portfolio management and funding at Pacific Investment Management.\nWith the exception of a few Fed officials such as governor Christopher Waller, most policymakers are moving to the camp of higher neutral rates. But their estimates varied in a wide range between 2.4 per cent and 3.75 per cent, underscoring the uncertainties in making the forecasts.\nMr Powell in his discussions with reporters on June 12, following the wrap of the central bank\u2019s two-day policy meeting, seemed to downplay its importance in the Fed\u2019s decision-making, saying \u201cwe can\u2019t really know\u201d whether neutral rates have increased or not.\nFor some in the market, it is not an unknown. It is a new higher reality. And it is a potential roadblock for a rally. BLOOMBERG"}