{"title": "France on the march, destination unknown", "tags": "opinion", "timestamp": "2022-04-12", "content": "President Emmanuel Macron is reaching out to left-wing voters. His team was quick to remind French voters of his rival's links with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The offensive has begun to take down Ms Marine Le Pen, barely 24 hours after the results of the first round of the presidential election were out.\n\"I want to reach out to anyone who wants to work for France. I am ready to invent something new to bring together convictions and sensitivities,\" Mr Macron promised yesterday. In theory, he has a better chance of winning another term in office when the second and decisive round of French elections takes place in two weeks. But as his frantic appeal to the electorate shows, Mr Macron knows he has a serious fight on his hands.\nFor Ms Le Pen, the leader of the National Rally, a far-right, anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim party, could surprise us all and win the presidency after all, just as Mr Donald Trump defied predictions in 2016. And a Le Pen triumph would inflict a potentially fatal blow to both the European Union and Nato, the US-led military alliance in Europe, precisely when both institutions are straining to keep Europe protected in the face of the war in Ukraine.\nYet even if Mr Macron does secure the presidency for a further five-year term, the fact remains that France's political map is in a meltdown. Populists and extremist politicians of both the far right and far left variety have moved from the fringes and now firmly occupy the main stage in French politics.\nUnder the French electoral system, anyone securing a sufficient number of nominations from mayors and other local officials can stand for the presidency in the first round of elections. If a candidate obtains an overall majority of over half of all the votes cast, he or she gets elected. But as that has never happened since the current Constitution was adopted more than six decades ago, a second ballot is held two weeks later, at which only the two best-placed candidates from the first round are allowed to compete.\nCalculations gone wrong\nPresident Macron's re-election strategy was always based on ensuring that Ms Le Pen would be his opponent in the second, decisive round of the vote. As conventional wisdom put it, with Ms Le Pen as the only choice on the ballot paper, Mr Macron could not lose. Regardless of whether people loved or hated the President, he would always be a better bet and attract more votes than a far-right rabble-rouser politician who heads a party rooted in the darker period of French history.\nMr Macron got his wish, and he will face Ms Le Pen on April 24 for the final battle. The President did better than expected by polling just over 27 per cent of the votes cast on Sunday. But Ms Le Pen also achieved the highest score of her political career: just under 24 per cent.\nTo put it into perspective, her father Jean-Marie Le Pen, who established the party, got less than 1 per cent of the votes when he stood for the French presidency back in the 1970s, and by the 1980s, he was polling around 10 per cent. His daughter did better, but never before did she enjoy the current level of popularity.\nGoing into the final round, opinion polls indicate that Ms Le Pen remains behind President Macron as both fight to attract supporters of candidates eliminated from the running.\nBut all opinion polls also suggest that the result will be very close. And the reasons for this are a confluence of developments; some are the result of self-inflicted mistakes by Mr Macron, while others are beyond anyone's control.\nBefore the electoral campaign started, Mr Macron made a decision that may come back to haunt him: to campaign as little as possible and as late as possible.\nAt that time, this made perfect sense. Mr Macron is known to the public and has no difficulty commanding the media's undivided attention. So, unlike other candidates who crave publicity and recognition, the President stood to gain nothing from exposing himself to too much scrutiny.\nThere was also the question of time and resources: Like all sitting French presidents, Mr Macron decided that both were better devoted to the second round of the voting since he was always guaranteed to finish top in the first round. As a result, he formally announced his candidature only three weeks ago and attended only a single major public rally.\nMost of his campaign relied on paid media adverts, which sought to demolish Mr Macron's opponents rather than explain what the President wanted to do; the \"great man\" remained elusive.\nThat was a mistake, partly because - as it became clear - his hold on power is much more contested than anticipated. His aloofness from the hustings not only drew attention but also accentuated a perception of his arrogance and elitism. Thus, instead of shielding himself from brickbats, Mr Macron, a former banker turned politician, ended up annoying large segments of the electorate who felt neglected."}