{"title": "Nobody knows what to do as AI drives a surge in carbon emissions", "tags": "opinion", "timestamp": "2024-07-09", "content": "Since the release of ChatGPT in November 2022, the world has seen an incredible surge in investment, development and use of artificial intelligence (AI) applications. According to one estimate, the amount of computational power used for AI is doubling roughly every 100 days.\nThe social and economic impacts of this boom have provoked reactions around the world. European regulators recently pushed Meta to pause plans to train AI models on users\u2019 Facebook and Instagram data. The Bank of International Settlements, which coordinates the world\u2019s central banks, has warned AI adoption may change the way inflation works.\nThe environmental impacts have so far received less attention. A single query to an AI-powered chatbot can use up to 10 times as much energy as an old-fashioned Google search.\nBroadly speaking, a generative AI system may use 33 times more energy to complete a task than it would take with traditional software. This enormous demand for energy translates into surges in carbon emissions and water use, and may place further stress on electricity grids already strained by climate change.\nEnergy\nMost AI applications run on servers in data centres. In 2023, before the AI boom really kicked off, the International Energy Agency estimated data centres already accounted for 1 per cent to 1.5 per cent of global electricity use and around 1 per cent of the world\u2019s energy-related carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions.\nFor comparison, in 2022, the aviation sector accounted for 2 per cent of global energy-related CO2 emissions while the steel sector was responsible for 7 per cent to 9 per cent.\nHow is the rapid growth in AI use changing these figures? Recent environmental reporting by Microsoft, Meta and Google provides some insight.\nMicrosoft has significant investments in AI, with a large stake in ChatGPT maker OpenAI as well as its own Copilot applications for Windows. Between 2020 and 2023, Microsoft\u2019s disclosed annual emissions increased by around 40 per cent, from the equivalent of 12.2 million tonnes of CO2 to 17.1 million tonnes.\nThese figures include not only direct emissions but also indirect emissions, such as those caused by generating the electricity used to run data centres and those that result from the use of the company\u2019s products. (These three categories of emissions are referred to as Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, respectively.)\nMeta too is sinking huge resources into AI. In 2023, the company disclosed its Scope 3 emissions had increased by more than 65 per cent in just two years, from the equivalent of five million tonnes of CO2 in 2020 to 8.4 million tonnes in 2022.\nGoogle\u2019s emissions were almost 50 per cent higher in 2023 than in 2019. The tech giant\u2019s 2024 environmental report notes that planned emissions reductions will be difficult \u201cdue to increasing energy demands from the greater intensity of AI compute\u201d.\nWater\nData centres generate a lot of heat and consume large amounts of water to cool their servers. According to a 2021 study, data centres in the US use about 7,100 litres of water for each megawatt-hour of energy they consume.\nGoogle\u2019s US data centres alone consumed an estimated 12.7 billion litres of fresh water in 2021.\nIn regions where climate change is increasing water stress, the water use of data centres is becoming a particular concern. The recent drought in California, where many tech companies are based, has led companies including Google, Amazon and Meta to start \u201cwater positive\u201d initiatives.\nThese big tech firms have announced commitments to replenish more water than they consume by 2030. Their plans include projects such as designing ecologically resilient watershed landscapes and improving community water conservation to improve water security.\nClimate risk\nWhere data centres are located in or near cities, they may also end up competing with people for resources in times of scarcity. Extreme heat events are one example.\nGlobally, the total number of days above 50 deg C has increased in each decade since 1980. July 2023 was the hottest month ever recorded.\nExtreme heat translates to health impacts on local populations.\nA Lancet 2022 study found that even a 1 deg C increase in temperature is positively associated with increased mortality and morbidity.\nOn days of extreme heat, air-conditioning can save lives. Data centres also like to keep cool, so their power use will spike with the temperature, raising the risk of blackouts and instability in electricity grids.\nWhat\u2019s next?\nSo what now? As we have seen, tech companies are increasingly aware of the issue.\nHow is that translating into action?\nWhen we surveyed Australian sustainability professionals in July 2023, we found only 6 per cent believed data centre operators provided detailed sustainability data.\nEarlier in 2024, we asked IT managers in Australia and New Zealand what they thought about how AI applications are driving increased energy use.\nWe found 72 per cent are already adopting or piloting AI technologies.\nMore than 68 per cent said they were concerned about increased energy consumption for AI needs. However, there is also significant uncertainty about the size of the increase.\nMany IT managers lack the necessary skills to adequately address these sustainability impacts, regardless of corporate sustainability commitments. Education and training for IT managers to understand and address the sustainability impacts of AI is urgently required.\nGordon Noble is research director, Institute for Sustainable Futures, at the University of Technology Sydney in Australia, and Fiona Berry is research principal, Institute for Sustainable Futures, at the same institution. This article was first published in The Conversation."}