{"title": "Mental health myths: Is it possible to get better? And is seeking help expensive?", "tags": "singapore", "timestamp": "2024-10-05", "content": "SINGAPORE - It is prohibitively expensive to seek mental health help in Singapore \u2013 or is it? Ms See Yen Theng, chief of caregiving and community mental health division at the Agency for Integrated Care, sets the record straight on common misconceptions about mental health in Singapore.\nMyth #1: The Institute of Mental Health is the only place to seek help for all mental health issues\nThe Institute of Mental Health is the only tertiary hospital in Singapore that specialises in psychiatry, which is the diagnosis and treatment of mental health conditions. However, other restructured hospitals also have psychiatric services that offer diagnosis and treatment.\nWhat\u2019s more, hospitals are not the only places where you can seek mental health help. Those who recognise the signs and symptoms of mental health issues in themselves or their loved one can also go to their general practitioner, or regular polyclinic for a diagnosis and treatment.\nOther mental health first-stop touchpoints, such as Community Outreach Teams, can be found at social service agencies. These teams can understand a person\u2019s needs, promote early recognition and provide emotional support to individuals and caregivers.\nSocial service agencies also have a Community Intervention Team, which provides assessment, counselling, therapy, case management and psychoeducation support for clients with mental health issues and dementia, and their caregivers. With the assessment, the team develops individualised care plans for clients or link them up with other suitable services.\nTo locate and contact these teams, individuals can use the Community Mental Health Wayfinding Tool, co-developed by the Agency for Integrated Care and MOH Office for Healthcare Transformation.\nThe tool is designed to help users locate community mental health services within three clicks, based on their needs, age and postal address. Such needs could be to find out what kind of help is appropriate, locate the nearest service providers for therapy, counselling or medical advice, or be directed to self-help resources.\nSince the tool\u2019s launch in May, more than 8,000 users have accessed it. The tool can be found at https://mindline.sg/mental-health-service-providers/start\nMyth #2: People with mental health conditions will never get better\nStudies show that most people with mental health conditions can get better, with some making a full recovery. Mental health recovery is the process by which people can go back to living, working, learning, and reintegrating back into their communities.\nRecovery is a unique process and varies from person to person. For some individuals, recovery is the ability to live a fulfilling and meaningful life while living with mental health issues. For others, recovery can mean symptoms improve or go away altogether.\nMyth #3: Feelings of depression are not a mental health issue\nWhile there will be times in life that can have you feeling anxious or down, persistent or prolonged feelings of sadness, hopelessness, or loss of interest in activities may be signs of clinical depression or other mental health disorders."}