{"title": "Central Public Library reopens with new marine biodiversity space, generative AI storytelling", "tags": "singapore", "timestamp": "2024-01-12", "content": "SINGAPORE - The Central Public Library has reopened its doors after an 18-month renovation, featuring a marine biodiversity-themed learning space for children, and storytelling through artificial intelligence (AI) and augmented reality (AR) technologies.\nSpeaking at the opening of the Central Public Library on Jan 12, Minister for Communications and Information Josephine Teo said libraries were repositories of knowledge and had a special place in society.\n\u201cLibraries can evolve and remain hubs of knowledge and discovery... for generations. In today\u2019s world, dominated by digital platforms and proliferation of content, libraries must find new ways to empower people to learn and connect,\u201d she said.\nThis was why the National Library Board (NLB) launched the Libraries and Archives Blueprint 2025 in October 2021 to create meaningful reading, learning and discovery experiences in the library for all people \u2013 for today and tomorrow.\n\u201cToday, we are taking the next step in our journey of library transformation. The Central Public Library has been refreshed with many new features. There is nothing better than experiencing these new features in the revamped library for yourself,\u201d added Mrs Teo.\nOne of the key features of the Central Public Library, the Children\u2019s Biodiversity Library aims to let children get up close with marine life through a plethora of marine and coral specimens and books on marine biodiversity. Families can learn about sustainability and the environment together.\n\u201cWe must also educate our people to help build a sustainable future,\u201d Mrs Teo said, highlighting the library\u2019s focus on sustainability.\nThis learning space, jointly created with the S.E.A. Aquarium at Resorts World Sentosa, is the first marine biodiversity-themed learning space for children at a public library in Singapore. It is located in the basement of the National Library building in Victoria Street.\nThe cerulean underwater world replaced My Tree House, the world\u2019s first green library for children, which was created in 2013 in partnership with City Developments.\nThe Children\u2019s Biodiversity Library features an Intertidal Zone, an Open Ocean Zone and a Submarine Room.\nInfographics at the Intertidal Zone showcase hardy sea life, including corals, sea stars and crabs that inhabit sandy shores.\nAt the Open Ocean Zone, a floor-to-ceiling coral installation and specimens from S.E.A. Aquarium\u2019s collection, including shark egg cases and coral skeletons, are on display. Visitors can also view a video projection of a jellyfish habitat housed in the S.E.A. Aquarium.\nIn the Submarine Room, volunteers from Resorts World Sentosa and members of the public who are trained in marine biology and conservation conduct intertidal animal art, upcycling workshops and storytelling sessions. Visitors have the opportunity to meet real-life divers and aquarists."}